---
layout: post
title: Android N
---


**Android N name**: *What will Android 7.0 be called?*
Following Android Alpha and Android Beta, Google has always named its Android OS updates after sweet treats, and in alphabetical order. So far we've had Cupcake, Donut, Eclair, Froyo, Gingerbread, Honeycomb, Ice Cream Sandwich, Jelly Bean, KitKat, Lollipop and Marshmallow. Also see: How fast is Android Nougat? And how to split screen in Android Nougat.
Next in line is Android 'N', sure to be a sweet treat, but Google was having difficulty in deciding which one. It allowed people to vote on the new Android N name at android.com/name-n until 8 June, and has now announced that it will be called Android Nougat. Also see: How to direct reply in Android Nougat.

**Android Nougat UK release date**:* When is Android Nougat coming out?*
Android Nougat Developer Preview 4
In an unusual move Google unveiled the Android Nougat Developer Preview ahead of Google I/O in order to give it more time to incorporate feedback from developers. At Google I/O the company discussed some new features that we'll detail below, and announced that a public beta of Android Nougat was available.
We're now up to Android Nougat Developer Preview 4, which doesn't appear to have any major new features but is mostly concerned with APIs. There will be one more Developer Preview prior to the final release. Click here to learn how to install Android Nougat now.
At I/O 2016 Google said the final version of Android Nougat would be available later in the summer. Our money is on late September, at which point it will likely ship the new OS preinstalled on the new Nexus 5 and Nexus 6 phones for 2016. Android Nougat will be available to download to older Nexus devices soon afte, and other flagship Android devices will get the upgrade toward the end of the year or early 2017.
The Android Nougat Developer Preview was announced in March 2016, and Google has provided the following timeline. Preview 1 is the initial release or Alpha version of Android Nougat. Preview 2 and Preview 3 are incremental beta updates. Preview 4 will include the final APIs and official SDK, Play Publishing, while Preview 5 is the near-final system image for last-minute tests. The final release will follow Preview 5 in Q3 2016.

Some time between the Developer Preview going live and the final version of Android Nougat being announced Google will confirm the new operating system's name and number, revealing a new Android lawn statue at the US Googleplex. And we will find out exactly how far off the mark is our guess of Android 7.0 Nectar. Also see: Best new phones coming in 2016.
**When will my phone get Android Nougat? Will my phone get Android Nougat?**
As we've said above, Android Nougat won't be released until Q3 2016, and even then only on certain Nexus devices. Nexus phones and tablets are always the first to get new operating system updates, but even Google won't support them forever. Security updates are provided for three years following the device's release, or 18 months after it is removed from the Google Play Store (whichever is longer).
So, for example, the Nexus 5X and Nexus 6P will be supported by Google until September 2017, which means they will get both Android Nougat and next year's Android O. The Nexus 9 and Nexus 6 will both be supported until October 2016, which should mean they get an update to Android Nougat but not Android O. Older Nexus devices will not be upgraded.
Those with supported Nexus devices should find the update rolls out to their device following the launch of the new Nexus phones for 2016, or at least within a few weeks of launch, giving a timeframe of around September 2016. 
